NLB-6577 Added NGINXaaS troubleshooting guide (#534)
nginx/documentation: content/nginxaas-azure/troubleshooting/guide.md

---
title: Troubleshooting guide

> weight: 50

Author: I've now moved this to the root of the `nginxaas-azure` docs.

toc: true
url: /nginxaas/azure/troubleshooting/guide/
type:
- how-to
--- 

Many users encounter difficulties getting started with NGINXaaS for Azure, or have difficulty debugging performance or run-time problems. Here is some guidance about how to resolve common problems. 

## Certificate health ##

> Certificates are a common source of confusion and errors. It is important to understand that certificates are integral to your deployment's health. Once you have added a certificate as a resource to your deployment, our service will always attempt to fetch that certificate when applying your NGINX configuration. It doesn't matter whether the certificate is referenced by the NGINX configuration or not: we will always try to fetch it as long as it is added to the deployment. 

Reviewer: This seems specific to certs stored in AKV and not those directly uploaded as part of the NGINX configuration.

Author: I've added some text about Azure Key Vault to make it clear that that's the use case I'm addressing.

- Ensure that all certificate resources are needed by the deployment and that they are not about to expire. 

> - If a certificate on the deployment expires in your Azure Key Vault, we will not be able to fetch it and your deployment will enter a degraded state. Our service will then be unable to apply the latest software updates to your dataplane. 

Reviewer: based on our last customer interaction, maybe change this to:
... enter a degraded state and may not be able to serve traffic.

1. SSH into the VM and then `ping` or `curl` the upstream. 
1. You should be successful. If not, this indicates that the upstream is not accessible to our service. 

If there are other problems routing traffic to your upstreams, check the logs of your upstream servers to gain further insights into the problem.

## Upstream health ##

Once your upstream servers are accessible to our service, NGINX gives you various tools to [manage the health of your upstreams](https://www.f5.com/company/blog/nginx/active-or-passive-health-checks-which-is-right-for-you). 

We recommend that users enable both passive and active health checks on their deployments. 

- Active health checks proactively monitor the responsiveness of your upstreams and allows your NGINXaaS deployment to stop routing traffic to unhealthy backend servers. 

See [this document](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/load-balancer/http-health-check/) for steps to configure active and passive health checks through your NGINX configuration.

## Monitoring your deployment ##

NGINXaaS gives users two main tools to monitor the performance of their deployments. 

> - [Enable NGINX logs](https://docs.nginx.com/nginxaas/azure/monitoring/enable-logging/)
> - [Enable monitoring](https://docs.nginx.com/nginxaas/azure/monitoring/enable-monitoring/)
> 
> NGINX access logs give you information about the requests received by your NGINXaaS deployment and the error logs tell you about errors encountered by NGINX when handling incoming requests. This information is extremely important when debugging problems with your NGINX configuration. Many problems that arise when handling traffic can be fixed by modifying your NGINX configuration.
> 
> The metrics published by NGINXaaS to Azure Monitor offer a powerful tool for evaluating system performance. [Our metrics catalog](https://docs.nginx.com/nginxaas/azure/monitoring/metrics-catalog/) provides a description of each metric. Taken together these metrics provide insights into every aspect of your deployment's performance. If you add the memory [zone](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_upstream_module.html#zone) directive to your upstreams in your NGINX configuration, we will be able to provide metrics on upstream health.     

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enable NGINX logs

   NGINX access logs give you information about the requests received by your NGINXaaS deployment, and the error logs tell you about errors encountered by NGINX when handling incoming requests. This information is extremely important when debugging problems with your NGINX configuration. Many problems that arise when handling traffic can be fixed by modifying your NGINX configuration.

   See the [NGINXaaS logging documentation](https://docs.nginx.com/nginxaas/azure/monitoring/enable-logging/) for more information about how to enable and configure NGINX logs.

2. Enable monitoring

   The metrics published by NGINXaaS to Azure Monitor offer a powerful tool for evaluating system performance. [Our metrics catalog](https://docs.nginx.com/nginxaas/azure/monitoring/metrics-catalog/) provides a description of each metric. Taken together, these metrics provide insights into every aspect of your deployment’s performance. If you add the `memory_zone` directive to your upstreams in your NGINX configuration, we will be able to provide metrics on upstream health.

   See the [NGINXaaS monitoring documentation](https://docs.nginx.com/nginxaas/azure/monitoring/enable-monitoring/) for more information about how to enable and configure monitoring.
```

## System load ##

> The `nginxaas.capacity.percentage` metric indicates how much capacity your deployment is consuming (expressed as a percentage of the total). We recommend [configuring an alert](https://docs.nginx.com/nginxaas/azure/monitoring/configure-alerts/) on this metric, so that if it exceeds a certain threshold, you manually scale out your deployment. If you have [autoscaling](https://docs.nginx.com/nginxaas/azure/quickstart/scaling/#autoscaling) enabled, our service will scale your deployment automatically. 

Reviewer: `... you can manually scale ...` ?
